# Manifesto
Periodicals are magazines, newspapers, journals, and other printed texts published in parts over time.  They have received poor treatment from libraries (see https://catalog.princeton.edu/catalog/9962533003506421), in part because they have been considered ephemeral; in part because they are difficult to describe (see https://www.loc.gov/aba/pcc/conser/); in part because their readerships have historically come from marginalized classes.  They have fared no better in digitization, which often ignores their compound nature (they are not multi-volume works, and, taken as wholes (runs), many are thousands of pages long) and their often-complex page layouts, which make naive text capture more challenging.

DLS's vision of becoming an "inspiring environment for global communities to engage with diverse collections" must frankly acknowledge that diversity.  Not all library collections are bound volumes, yet the tools, workflows, and systems DLS has developed to enable "easy ingest, long-term preservation, joyful discovery, and transformative use of digital materials" focus on books.  Periodicals are different: they are published differently; they are read differently.  They require different approaches, tools, and techniques to be digitized and delivered.

DLS has acknowledged that maps are not (usually) printed books. It has acknowledged that archives are not books (though they may contain them).  It has acknowledged that collections of ephemera are not books (though much ephemera is printed and some of it is bound).  So far it has not considered periodicals worth its time and effort.  The support it has provided for discovery of and access to periodicals is neither joyful nor transformative -- indeed, DLS has acknowledged that in some cases it is simply unusable.

Strawberry acknowledges that periodicals are not books, though they are usually printed, and many have been bound (by libraries, so they could treat them like books).  It will bring new approaches, perspectives, and techniques to DLS while striving to complement and supplement and integrate with its existing platforms.  Strawberry aims to make discovering and reading the digitized periodicals in PUL's collection a joyful and transformative experience for students, scholars, and common readers alike.

## Vision
> Supporting [DLS's Vision](https://github.com/pulibrary/dls-handbook#our-vision), Strawberry will be a part of Princeton University's Digital Library particularly devoted to creating and sustaining an inspiring environment for global communities to engage with periodical literature: newspapers, magazines, and other serial publications.

